docs/index.md, before:

---
layout: home
sidebar: false

title: Stylus
titleTemplate: An expressive, robust, feature-rich CSS language built for nodejs

hero:
  name: Stylus
  text: Expressive, dynamic and robust CSSs
  tagline: An expressive, robust, feature-rich CSS language built for nodejs
  image:
    src: /logo.svg
    alt: Stylus
  actions:
    - theme: brand
      text: Get Started
      link: /docs/executable
    - theme: alt
      text: Features
      link: /docs/
    - theme: alt
      text: Stylus vs Less vs Sass
      link: /docs/compare
    - theme: alt
      text: View on GitHub
      link: https://github.com/stylus/stylus

features:
  - title: Born for Nodejs
    details: TJ create this project for nodejs ecosystem since 2010
  - title: CSS Compatible
    details: Don't like indented syntax ? ok, it's optional! You can write stylus like css-style without pain
  - title: IDE support
    details: Both VSCode (with stylus extension) and WebStorm (builtin) support stylus development
  - title: All optional
    details: braces, semi-colons and more can be omit in your code, keep clean and less
---

Commit message:

Correct typos and copy edit
Fix capitalization of Node.js, CSS, Stylus (CSS is already plural so CSSs is not really correct)

Correct minor language errors

docs/index.md, after:

---
layout: home
sidebar: false

title: Stylus
titleTemplate: An expressive, robust, feature-rich CSS language built for Node.js

hero:
  name: Stylus
  text: Expressive, dynamic, and robust CSS
  tagline: An expressive, robust, feature-rich CSS language built for Node.js
  image:
    src: /logo.svg
    alt: Stylus
  actions:
    - theme: brand
      text: Get Started
      link: /docs/executable
    - theme: alt
      text: Features
      link: /docs/
    - theme: alt
      text: Stylus vs Less vs Sass
      link: /docs/compare
    - theme: alt
      text: View on GitHub
      link: https://github.com/stylus/stylus

features:
  - title: Born for Node.js
    details: TJ created this project for the Node.js Ecosystem in 2010
  - title: CSS Compatible
    details: Don't like indented syntax? OK, it's optional! You can write Stylus like CSS without the pain
  - title: IDE support
    details: Both VSCode (with Stylus extension) and WebStorm (built in) support Stylus development
  - title: All optional
    details: Braces, semi-colons, and more can be omitted from your code to keep it clean and smaller
---
